---
date: 2014-11-24T00:00:00Z
title: Bij Brons in Almere
tags: ["almere", "bij brons", "customer service", "dining experience", "dutch cuisine", "food and wine", "restaurant review"]
url: /2014/Bij-Brons/
---

When [searching] for a good restaurant, I found *Bij Brons* in Almere. As it was the highest rated
restaurant in Almere, I decided to reserve a table for two on a (lovely) Friday evening.

On the phone I chose the "5 gangen menù" which is the most expensive option the restaurant offers
(for a mere €43.50 per person I have to say). By peeking their website, I read somewhere that their
*mission statement* (or *strategy statement*, depending on how you [call it][twitter]) is to offer
great food for reasonable prices (take notes, Twitter!). This, together with their high rating,
convinced me that there were no tricks hidden behind the price, nor any up selling.

Starting from our phone call, Ivonne (the lady that owns the place, together with her husband, John)
impressed me by spelling out my name right ("Giovanni" is, for Dutch-speaking, not the easiest word
to pronounce correctly). Later at the restaurant I understood the reason: she speaks
fluent Italian although she's as Dutch as it gets!

But the good things do not end up here. Upon arrival (the local was full, luckily we called in
advance) we found a modern restaurant with classic touches that was intimate and warm. Ivonne asked
immediately if there was anything we didn't wanted on our menu, to which my wife promptly answered
"Onions!". Afterwards, as my wife was pregnant, Ivonne said that the salmon we were going to have
was safe for the baby.  She then offered to look up whether the paté was safe as well, but I
said that I'd Google that.  It turns out fresh paté properly conserved is also safe for the baby.

Let me say that I've never experienced such a level of care for the guests: we're often asked these
questions, but Ivonne did so because she cared, not because she had to.

Afterwards, the various courses began appearing. I asked suggestion for the wine. Ivonne chose
wisely: first a red wine (I don't remember the name), then a white Almaral Gewurz to accompany the
salmon. Food and wine were nothing short of delicious.

As we approached the fourth course, I took the wine choice in my hands and ordered a red
Valpolicella. When John (cook and owner) heard me, he made a big smile, as if I already knew,
even if I didn't, what was coming next.

The remaining courses were flawless. Contrary to what I thought by reading the menu, we received 5
courses + dessert. The dessert probably doesn't count as it is served in a glass rather than on a
plate.

It really was a magical evening at *Bij Brons*. You should check it out if you ever pass by Almere.

Thanks John and Ivonne.

[searching]: http://iens.nl
[twitter]: http://daringfireball.net/linked/2014/twitter-strategy-statement
